Jo Delgadillo: Rent.
Jo Delgadillo: And I've been going crazy.
Jo Delgadillo: Trying to find perfect because we always said, oh, because we're like in a rush, or are we just like hurry up. Want to get into. And I'm trying so hard to be patient.
Jo Delgadillo: And let things fall into place. Well, today I posted on one of these sites on Facebook, what I was looking for three bedroom or more pro hundred under and it except Stokes.
Jo Delgadillo: Well, a lady messaged me last night.
Jo Delgadillo: And says to inbox, or like private messenger. So I did. So she's telling me she has three bedroom house and that it's moving ready and we're going to do is your first and last and $100 deposit for each dog like cool
Jo Delgadillo: Sounds good, because we had the money. Well, we go look at it this morning she you know this lock boxes they put them on the door.
Jo Delgadillo: Number and she gave us the number to type in, and everything. We went in. We literally went in this House, we got to stay there for 30 minutes and it was gorgeous like was huge and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The yard.
Jo Delgadillo: Was a dream come true. And I'm like, it's too good to be true. And then I'm like, stop being negative because I go there, like
Jo Delgadillo: All the time doing that.
Jo Delgadillo: My kids do it too. Now,
Jo Delgadillo: We got to stop doing that, like stay on one level and stay there. Well, she starts messaging me and then stop messaged me. Well, we're leaving walking out the door. Someone else is coming in and I'm like, she told us that like we were like basically showing like we were going to get it.
Jo Delgadillo: Look at it more like
Jo Delgadillo: Good to go. Well, I started thinking she won't answer my phone calls. And then when I call it was a calling app that was one red flag.
Jo Delgadillo: And then another red flag was
Jo Delgadillo: She wouldn't answer. I don't sound like what shocked me. So she messaged us back saying that she works at a hospital or she's out of hospital and I'm just like, Okay. And I'm like, this has to be wrong. So I started doing my little CSI thing and I put the address into
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Froze Joe
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Joe froze.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hey,
Jo Delgadillo: Lady is still messaging me
Jo Delgadillo: Claiming that this is her house.
Jo Delgadillo: And I'm still in contact with the rule.
Jo Delgadillo: The lady from the religious replace
Jo Delgadillo: Houses 1300, you have to make triple
Jo Delgadillo: M of the house, rent, which he doesn't he makes a little under that so we wouldn't qualify and we have to have our credit score at least 500 which
Jo Delgadillo: Is credit, credit scores 534 so we would qualify network. And so I'm like, trying to get it from a real estate lady in which we wouldn't saw just like, whatever. Well, the lady tells me it's my house. I'll meet you there Sunday.
Jo Delgadillo: And the lady. Yes, the router lady swears up and down. It's not this lady's house.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't know what to believe, like
Jo Delgadillo: Your house and you just didn't want to go through the
Jo Delgadillo: People I have them.
Jo Delgadillo: And I asked her, I will get this house from you if you can
Jo Delgadillo: Prove to me that it's your house and my grandma used to be. She used to own a whole bunch of houses in California. So she told me to go through their credit assessor thingy and
Jo Delgadillo: I'm waiting for them to email me back to see her whose name of the houses under she can't
Jo Delgadillo: They can't tell me
Jo Delgadillo: Sister Kim credit assessor whatever you call them. So it's crazy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That seems so complicated and and just like the uncertainty of it all. I mean, I don't even know if I would explore in
Jo Delgadillo: My head is
Jo Delgadillo: But I started messaging other people that she's commented to and they suspect the same thing that is a scam.
Jo Delgadillo: Don't want to meet. Nobody should
Jo Delgadillo: If that's your house. And that's a gorgeous else you would want to know who's going in your house.
Jo Delgadillo: No, I would, and I
Jo Delgadillo: When she first started talking to me. I told her. Stop talking to me and go to my Facebook and investigate me a little
Jo Delgadillo: About that I should have
Jo Delgadillo: Like a light bulb should have went on.
Jo Delgadillo: Anybody into your house.
Jo Delgadillo: still staying at my grandma's house sleeping on her couch.
Jo Delgadillo: In the living room floor.
Jo Delgadillo: I can't do that little RV no more. I can do.
Jo Delgadillo: Crazy. I was going crazy.
Jo Delgadillo: And now being here is stressing me out because it's costing us a lot of money because you can buy everything to the paper groceries and
Jo Delgadillo: It sucks. Everyone stuck in here. So they just sit around on their asses eaten all day and I can't get mad because what what else are they gonna do
Jo Delgadillo: What I can to keep everybody busy, but there's just so long I can keep them busy.
Jo Delgadillo: Sucks. I just don't know what to do now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What routes for you using beforehand to to be able to find them on.
Jo Delgadillo: Facebook and we were starting with Zillow but we don't qualify for none of that. So we have to go through like a person that owns the house in the second right now. But that's hard because nobody wants to meet with you right now because of the quarantine thing. And they're scared.
Jo Delgadillo: And you really can't blame them. But
Jo Delgadillo: If we had a few more thousand dollars we can get this RV that has a bunker in it and live in that like kids to be happy in that
Jo Delgadillo: Into like I don't want a big house.
Jo Delgadillo: We don't spend time with each other for the big house. Everybody just goes to their supper room and we forget about each other. I don't want that to happen again. So
Jo Delgadillo: He doesn't get it. He's like, it's too small will be prompted. I'm like, No, it's you're looking at it that way. I'm looking at is, we'll spend time with each other.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: actually eat at the dinner table and we used to do that, we looked at our other house.
Jo Delgadillo: It was smaller. We all ate dinner together. We don't do that. No more. I was used to my whole childhood, we no matter what. Even if everybody was fighting and being crazy, we always had dinner together.
Jo Delgadillo: Even if we didn't talk to each other.
Jo Delgadillo: They made sure if you were not home for dinner, you can eat. You had to be there to eat with everybody. Right, so we can see your faces.
Jo Delgadillo: I missed that.
Jo Delgadillo: I want my kids to have that I had a crazy channels, but it was. That's the one thing I miss in our family days like we had family.
Jo Delgadillo: Days, where it would cover all the windows in our house and it put signs on the door that nobody can not, no matter who you are, don't bother us. We're having family day and we would make forts in the house.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Jo Delgadillo: Put the TV.
Jo Delgadillo: Reports like I missed that. I want to tell my kids.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I don't, I don't want to rush, but I feel like I'm about to what I feel it coming.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That, that, that's the anxiety speaking, that's the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anxiety telling you to hurry up act now and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like you said, there's a whole pandemic going on, you know, the good news is that you have shelter. It's not the ideal shelter, but you have shelter and you're in that shelter with the people you love.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're not in a violent relationship where you need to get out asap because your life is in jeopardy. Your kids are safe. You're in a safe relationship so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just say, You know what, I'm not in my ideal situation, but eventually I will be because this seems like a red flag. I would pursue it anymore with this person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And and when everything dies down, you'll be able to find wisdom, you know, more options and me. This is more time to just save up even more money to get
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something that's a little more ideal for the family. Yeah, we've spent
Jo Delgadillo: Like $1,000 in like three weeks on groceries.
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, but yesterday I checked my food stamp card and I had $1,400 a food stamps. I was like, wait, what I had to show everybody
Jo Delgadillo: Because I thought I was hallucinating and everybody is laughing. And I'm like, that's right. Right. You read that, too. And they're like, Yeah. And then I got a letter today. It's for April 714 for April and 714 for March, because of the pandemic. They're helping people out
Jo Delgadillo: So that means we don't have to touch our cash.
Jo Delgadillo: To watch it grow so we can move
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes.
Jo Delgadillo: We spent a lot of money being here in the past like month that I sent to start it.
Jo Delgadillo: Sucks.
Jo Delgadillo: And then we didn't stock up like everybody else did. And the prices on everything went up so
Jo Delgadillo: Maybe I should have stopped a
Lot of people
Jo Delgadillo: Like that I didn't
Jo Delgadillo: Because everybody else did it and I see these old people go shopping. They can get what they need, because everybody took it inside
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Considered but that's okay. That's okay. This is going to give you opportunity to save money to find something that ideal for you and it's good that you caught this he signs before was too late. Could you imagine you gave this lady your money.
Jo Delgadillo: And yes,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This wasn't even her home.
I know
Jo Delgadillo: That was such
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I started thinking about it.
Jo Delgadillo: And my girl is like, you know what, I'm proud of you for thinking about it before you acted because usually when I'm in this situation, I just act.
Jo Delgadillo: Like
Jo Delgadillo: No, I gotta stop. I gotta start thinking, I gotta make phone calls and I did. And thank God I
Did
Jo Delgadillo: She showed she's the lady hacks that little lock thing.
Jo Delgadillo: But it scares me because she has my email address and my phone number. Now,
Jo Delgadillo: I'm scared. She's are trying to have my phone or my bank account or something.
Jo Delgadillo: Very
Jo Delgadillo: smart man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just change the password in your email, you can do that from your phone just to be safe.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But if that's all the information she has. I don't think she could get any bank account information.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On, but I know in situations like this where you feel compromised. You want to put something in place and type of safety measures to make you feel like you did something so I would change the password on your email.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Address by one character and and that makes you feel like you put some safety guard measure in place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Close communication going with grandma.
Jo Delgadillo: Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: I need to go get her pills today. So she was my best friend.
Jo Delgadillo: She can't leave.
Jo Delgadillo: And I'm the only one that goes with her to doctors appointments and it's pain pills, so they can't just released anybody and the doctor wasn't there. So she wrote out a whole bunch of
Jo Delgadillo: Prescriptions just handed to
Jo Delgadillo: Me that the door. And I was like, that's crazy like anybody can come in.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
She's like,
Jo Delgadillo: Now you want to talk to me. She doesn't talk to me two days. And she's like, You need to go get it for me. And of course, I'm gonna go get it for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It.
Jo Delgadillo: Sucks that nobody talks to me until they want something just like my son. He doesn't talk to me like four days and then two days ago he needed a bed so
Jo Delgadillo: Talk to me.
Jo Delgadillo: My husband's been stepping up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me, Stephen.
Jo Delgadillo: Probably just we got into a fight, and I wanted to leave.
Jo Delgadillo: And he actually yelled at me slam the door and everything he does not raise this course.
Jo Delgadillo: And that made me think he was guilty. He had bad intentions and he got caught.
Jo Delgadillo: So you got the cancer.
Jo Delgadillo: And he did. I seen it, and I called him out on it. You just didn't like. We call them out on it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was the argument about
Jo Delgadillo: He asked. He hates Sabrina. Sabrina is
Jo Delgadillo: Oh, Sabrina is healing Aiden smoke.
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, don't
Jo Delgadillo: Be married to her and I'm silly legally married to shame.
Jo Delgadillo: He said, he asked her how she's been doing like
Jo Delgadillo: Emotional and I overthink things. And my mom's earned tier, so I acknowledge it a lot. Now, but
Jo Delgadillo: He doesn't ask me, and he asked her, and it hurt my feelings like
Jo Delgadillo: You hate her. And you asked her how she was doing and if they're okay. And like I get mo P part you're asking about your daughter. But you asked how she was doing
Jo Delgadillo: I just, I didn't, I didn't like it, and it wasn't that I was jealous or that he was sheet. It was the most part.
Jo Delgadillo: Like he has no emotion towards me and he did towards somebody else on that and he did not get it. He was like, you think I'm gonna go cheat. I was like, hold on. That has nothing to do with what I'm trying anyone. Let me explain you just freaked out slim it
Jo Delgadillo: Sounds like that tells me your intention for bed like
Jo Delgadillo: You don't act like that until you're caught doing something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Even though you didn't really do it you in here. You did.
Jo Delgadillo: For Joe and because that's what happened last time when he gave some lady right I smoke cocoa butter and my car.
Jo Delgadillo: Was pregnant. I could smell.
Jo Delgadillo: dirt from a mile away. And he was like, I was like, Why do I smell cocoa butter my car, my truck. And he was like, what
Jo Delgadillo: And it's
Jo Delgadillo: Big and you got all defensive started with the bottom of the head and kind of like trying to ignore me but talking shit. Same time when it was a cup of butter in and then I found out like two hours later, my friend seen
Jo Delgadillo: Him.
Jo Delgadillo: Giving a girl. Right. So I was right there. Any finally admitted that he did. He gave a co worker. Right. And I'm like, but if you want, doing nothing wrong why lie.
Jo Delgadillo: And then that's another time he
Jo Delgadillo: And then he finally admitted it probably like two, three weeks later did it. Did you ever ride and she did kind of flirt with him. And I'm like, but you didn't do anything. There's hope.
Jo Delgadillo: She's learned
Jo Delgadillo: You can't control with someone else does.
Jo Delgadillo: Like, but you can control yourself and you did I just, I didn't want them to lie just want he wants to start flying
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Let's kind of work to sucks.
Jo Delgadillo: But he's been helping with dishes and everybody knows I hate doing dishes from since being a kid, I would throw the dishes away and hide them because I didn't want to do that. And when I got older, I told everybody I will never do this, should I do them but
Jo Delgadillo: He's been helping with the girls, but the only thing he slacked off on was helping me with the girls his homework.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Jo Delgadillo: I don't, I don't know if it's just because we're all tired of being here which the girls are starting to fill it to its online. So I kind of like slacked off on it too, just because the more harder I push her to do it, the more she writes me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Her teacher
Jo Delgadillo: told me to go outside and teacher because the work that I've been turning in for her is double what they're asking
Jo Delgadillo: But Julie's behind and I feel like she needs to be brought up because I was in denial that her speech was delaying her learning for a long time.
Jo Delgadillo: And now she's actually an attempt speech therapy in school. I started see it. So I'm like, Okay, I need to stop being in denial and just help my baby and
Jo Delgadillo: She's
Jo Delgadillo: She's got an attitude. Now she's been talking to me like that with her head and
Jo Delgadillo: Who are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, it's too early for that.
I know
Jo Delgadillo: Of course your beautiful
Jo Delgadillo: Blue eyes.
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, sure.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You, you have a lot of personalities are dealing with in their home. I could see why you trying to find a place to go.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But you're trying to keep the guys closing your husband's like okay, maybe we could separate ourselves a little bit. You think, what do you think is really about him changing now and doing all these things. Did you have a conversation about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I tried, but he doesn't listen on the top.
Jo Delgadillo: I think
Jo Delgadillo: Somebody had he had to talk to somebody
Jo Delgadillo: And
Jo Delgadillo: I think because he's not working, and he's here saying that I never get to sit down. I don't, I don't get sick like
Jo Delgadillo: constantly going and
Jo Delgadillo: The therapy. She told me that he's proud of me for doing it because I'm helping myself and I was just like, that was the first time he's ever
Jo Delgadillo: Knowledge it at all. He asks, Why are you always doing some kind of therapy or
Jo Delgadillo: You're always kind of trying like there's a lot going on here that you won't understand it and you guys do.
Jo Delgadillo: And it helps
Jo Delgadillo: I like it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you get an opportunity to practice that i feel i understand i need
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Communication skills yet.
Jo Delgadillo: I did. I tried. That's when I got into the car I got in. I made myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Calm down, like
Jo Delgadillo: I had anxiety. So that's when I went to talk to him when he started yelling at me and
Jo Delgadillo: looked down
Jo Delgadillo: And I tried to and I told him like two days later that I was trying to do this what you told me to do and
Jo Delgadillo: He started with
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh no, that's about him and not meal right and that's that's where not allowing that scapegoat cold to be thrown on you again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where people have used your reactions as a way to justify why they can treat you a certain way or they can respond to you a certain way.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so by you keeping on the hero cape which you have chosen that that is what's most suitable for you. Now when you don't react the way they expect you get changes in their behaviors, you know, because now you see him he's cooking. He's cleaning. So maybe HAD YOUR REACTION BEEN more aggressive
Jo Delgadillo: It didn't. I didn't
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. And usually I want to talk about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh yeah, just like
Jo Delgadillo: Talk to me. Talk to me. Talk to me. I'll follow them around.
Jo Delgadillo: Please talk to me.
Jo Delgadillo: And I didn't
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't talk to him for the whole day and a half and and he kept trying and trying to hug me and I'm like, I'm not gonna help you because it's not okay like I'm not okay well you said in the way you reacted wasn't okay and I need to know that.
Jo Delgadillo: You need to know that I need you don't understand it. My feelings are stupid just aren't stupid when I try to tell you, I feel you can't tell me, Oh, I feel like this. You can't compare your feelings to mind, he doesn't get
Jo Delgadillo: Credit for that. Before he wasn't even his son, Aiden was like, Why does my Dad, why do you spend so much time with me and my sister and you don't have to. And my dad has so many opportunities because you do so much with us and it made me sad that he said that
Jo Delgadillo: He sees it, but he's such a place on the way he reacts for me when I say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, what I've learned what I've noticed is that people that don't have the skill set on how to communicate being hurt. They're not good at communicating, or they just lack
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of the experience of being able to do it but they tend to do is when someone that's better at communicating express how they feel.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They use that as as a way in to now tag on to that person's emotions. So, for example, Joe, communicate, she's frustrated about A, B and C. Now your husband tries to tackle along with that. Well, I've been frustrated about A, B and C.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then it causes an argument, because, well now is not the opportunity to express your frustrations when I'm talking about mine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You should have communicated the frustrations, you had when they when the onset arrived. But that's what people tend to do when they lack the skill set on how to communicate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So be aware of that when you're trying to communicate how you feel. And the better you get at it, you're going to see that, you know, he may try to model that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it may be frustrating because it's like, Nah, he's not listening to me. But when it is, is he seeing you express themselves and now he's thinking, well, this is my opportunity share Highfield
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so where the hard work comes in as because you're expressing it because you're killing it in that moment, you want to address it. And now here's somebody comes in trying to talk about how these are really all you need is someone to listen.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To the hard thing is navigating that okay how can I extend the grace because I know he likes the communication skills, but how can I also make sure that my needs are being met and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the way you do that is still I feel I understand, and I need. I still feel frustrated about a b&c I understand that you're trying to communicate to me right now. Also how your film.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But right now I need to have time to express how I feel when I'm done, we can talk more about what what you wanted to stress.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because because your escape goal and people use that. I don't want you to see him communicating and speaking up that now you neglect your own emotions because you're focusing on him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
usually happens when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're with your side and what those different things. You said your son or your grandma. They only call you when they need something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's because you're an empathetic person you feel for others. And so you get that validation whenever someone needs you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's like you get charged up like if you were a battery and you are about to run out of juice, but someone needs you. It's like your battery starts filling up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the empathetic person because they feel for others it challenges when they want to do something for themselves. They're a constant combat over. How do I help others which is it makes me feel good, too. But I'm noticing that I'm abandoned and myself in this process.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it's the boundaries. It's the dominant myself. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: You know tell myself not to do that.
Jo Delgadillo: I need to take care of myself do
Jo Delgadillo: In order to care.
Jo Delgadillo: For and
Jo Delgadillo: It's hard battle was myself over it.
Jo Delgadillo: sucks because
Jo Delgadillo: Justin one that I told you a cancer that I cleaned his house last week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: He called today.
Jo Delgadillo: And I don't know what he wanted. I didn't get to talk to my left my phone that doesn't answer day and supposedly he wanted me to come over there, do something because he was born, I don't, I don't know what it was. Maybe it's just an excuse to give me other house.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't even
Jo Delgadillo: Like a senior pictures you look stressed out, just like wait, what you're paying attention. He's like, yeah, you're always busy. And I'm like, you see it in a picture of
Jo Delgadillo: My face.
Jo Delgadillo: He's like, if you ever want to lie and say you're coming in and clean.
Jo Delgadillo: My house, you can, but he weighed like 250 pounds and now he weighs 130
Jo Delgadillo: He's like
Jo Delgadillo: His leg was like this big around and I seen him two months ago and he was big and all of a sudden he's skinny, but he said Canter and I'm like dude, but they didn't want to come on. Ask him like is your answer by
Jo Delgadillo: Dark Brown.
Jo Delgadillo: Oh, it's like you're not okay. You need to go to a doctor and
Jo Delgadillo: She's currently
Jo Delgadillo: sucks because I feel what he's feeling and I hate it.
Jo Delgadillo: I can be
Anybody in through it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You see, he's also, um, I mean, maybe I'm overthinking this, but is it is he interested in you romantically
Jo Delgadillo: I played off the wall for everybody that's in our lives.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm like I don't even want my ma'am. So why
Would I want you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He's already enough. Okay. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, trying to get you out the home and all of that and maybe just wonder, okay, having a hidden agenda here. Yeah. And I told him in front of my son. One day I was like, you know, I like you.
Jo Delgadillo: Got a weird it was right there. I seen where his mind went and I was like, because you've never hit on me with or without him around. I like that. That's respect like
Jo Delgadillo: cross the line ever did.
Jo Delgadillo: And I call you out in front of him.
Jo Delgadillo: He's never, never tried
Jo Delgadillo: It's always been respectful. I got caught him looking at my boobs and stuff like that. That's normal.
Jo Delgadillo: Everybody in the world does
Jo Delgadillo: Not happen.
Man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I'm gonna give you some more nuggets on with the anxiety. So I'm going to play a video for you that just talks about what grounding exercises.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Don't get discouraged that the I feel I understand and it didn't work out because your husband.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wasn't in the space to receive that keep practicing it because you'll see that gives you the structure and even if you just have to do it internally to help you check in with your emotions, you'll see how you're able to just regulate yourself and not have to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Get the validation from your husband in regards to your feelings. I'm being uncomfortable in I feel upset and it's okay and I'm justified, you know, even if he doesn't get while I'm upset. I have a reason to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let me share my
Jo Delgadillo: Screen messes up when you blink and it makes your eyes look crazy.
There we go.
Jo Delgadillo: Through the parasympathetic
Jo Delgadillo: Response grounding.
Suicides
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in a previous episode, we talked about the importance of our nervous system in managing our emotions, there's both the sympathetic or the alerting activating response in our bodies.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the parasympathetic reaction which is the calming restoring part of our nervous system. And if we want to be healthy. We need to have a parasympathetic the dominant nervous system.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One of the ways we create that is by intentionally ground in the body in our senses. So here's a quick exercise on how to do that start to pay attention to the present moment, and the circumstances around you. So go ahead and take a deep breath and let it out slowly.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now we're going to start by grounding our body in our senses. So the five senses that we have are essential to managing our emotions. So let's start with our sense of touch.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So go ahead and touch three things in your environment. And as you touch them describe them in your mind. So for example, you might touch the desk and say this is smooth and cold do that with three objects.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The next sense that we're going to activate is our sense of sight. So go ahead and notice three things in your environment that you can see describe them in your mind as well.
The last sense that we're going to use in this grounding exercise is our sense of hearing. So try to notice three different sources of sound in your environment and in your mind to describe what they sound like.
As you notice this sensory input your body should become more grounded in the present moment.
This is important because in order for our bodies to feel safe and for our minds to relax. We need to send the message that they are safe.
And in general, the present moment that we are in is actually safe. So by grounding ourselves in our senses. We can send a message to our body and our brain that we are safe. Pay attention to the difference, you're feeling in your body as you become centered in this moment.
By becoming more grounded. You have impacted your nervous system.
This is a little activity. You can do throughout your day to feel a little bit calmer and to trigger that parasympathetic response, the more frequently you do it, the stronger your parasympathetic reaction will be
And your nervous system will become dominated by a calm resolve. I hope this was helpful. Thanks for watching.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Before
You know,
Jo Delgadillo: The surroundings one. Yeah. Or, and then listening. I've done the listening one and then when I was in therapy on and i was a kid.
Jo Delgadillo: That was my highest and
Jo Delgadillo: Listen to everything around me and sprees with it.
Jo Delgadillo: And then when we opened our eyes. We have explain what we were
Jo Delgadillo: And how made us feel. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, what do you remember about Danny, what was most helpful for you.
Jo Delgadillo: Actually everything
Jo Delgadillo: Because I got beat
Jo Delgadillo: So I think I couldn't tell her, but
Jo Delgadillo: I'm pretty sure she knew
Jo Delgadillo: She just didn't come out and say it because I scare my mom was like, kill me and your
Jo Delgadillo: Mom beat everybody up so that we could
Jo Delgadillo: Say nothing because then I'd be scared. Oh.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: He knew my mom.
Jo Delgadillo: And my grandma.
Jo Delgadillo: I needed her to break down or meltdown.
Jo Delgadillo: In class or anywhere because I would just go to these regions right stretch myself and for my hair and I hurt myself. I cut, I am I used to cut myself and
Jo Delgadillo: And then when they caught me doing my wrist. I started on my leg but but just she just helped you out to LA until I got pregnant with Jacob, and I couldn't explain to her how
Jo Delgadillo: To start applying just
Jo Delgadillo: Told me that I've only got pregnant. So I would have somebody to love me.
Jo Delgadillo: Therapy. So yeah, so I stopped going to her after that because
Jo Delgadillo: I cried and cried and cried because that woman.
Jo Delgadillo: Was there for me for years from elementary to junior high, and she had she had a kid. I didn't see everybody here and then she came back no her daughter gone. It's a wreck it was paralyzed quadriplegic where we call it
Jo Delgadillo: And she couldn't come back to work. But she came back to work. When I went to high school.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Jo Delgadillo: I stopped seeing her after high school because I gotten pregnant and she started seeing that stuff. I bought for a long time and I didn't tell nobody why
Jo Delgadillo: And I finally told my grandma and I wasn't really stopped going to she couldn't figure out why I stopped going to her is because she said that to me I trusted I trusted that woman like she was, she was really, I was really close to her. We cried together over her daughter.
Jo Delgadillo: And my aunt and my mom.
Jo Delgadillo: had cancer.
Jo Delgadillo: Treatment. That's how I felt hurt.
Jo Delgadillo: Especially in like junior high, as you start to grow and feel awkward. And I did. I just, and then I got really rage like rages like I'd go crazy. No reason I'd get mad and
Jo Delgadillo: Instead of hurting people because my mom beat me. And I know I didn't like the way it felt her hitting me I would hurt myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Like say the neighbor made me mad. I bought a house, I hurt myself.
Jo Delgadillo: And then they put me on medication. When I my girl wouldn't let them. But when I got older, I love my mom. They finally let her put me on medication. She, she was cool with them putting me on pain pills at 14
Jo Delgadillo: But not on antidepressants and
Jo Delgadillo: Stuff and and
Jo Delgadillo: mood stabilizer. So I wouldn't be going
Jo Delgadillo: Crazy. And I couldn't figure out why I just felt it like my anger level with just rise and rise and I couldn't control it.
Jo Delgadillo: And then I will tell them, and they wouldn't take me serious nobody did like just controlling you this so they started to put us a sports and it didn't help. I just, I just, I don't know what it was, but
Jo Delgadillo: Eventually when I got older, I started to realize, and then I had a kid young so
Jo Delgadillo: For him to be like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Misunderstood
Jo Delgadillo: Because I hurt.
Jo Delgadillo: My whole life. When I was a kid I
Jo Delgadillo: Didn't know they said it was growing pains my legs, but it wasn't my back.
Jo Delgadillo: Was everywhere. Sometimes my neck and my uncle, my aunt and all them will say almost she's lying. She's doing it for attention.
Jo Delgadillo: And then I started my period at 11 and I had horrible cramps. I couldn't move my legs what my left leg wouldn't work. And I just scream and they didn't believe me, nobody believed me that I have there, like, See, she's just trying to get all this attention.
Jo Delgadillo: Is because Carol. Carol visited my head yes or why would I want the attention doesn't make sense. And he just hated me it's because he molested me and he thought if he get me scared of him. I wouldn't say anything. And I didn't
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't say anything until I was
Jo Delgadillo: 21 years old.
Jo Delgadillo: So he worked in keeping me scared him but they finally found out
Jo Delgadillo: And I had endometriosis. I was a lion. They just didn't want to believe me they believed him sucked.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Areas to miss understood in right now.
Jo Delgadillo: Are you cut out
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I said, so there was this pattern of being misunderstood as a child and what areas. Now, do you feel Miss understood
Jo Delgadillo: When it comes to being paranoid about the kids.
Jo Delgadillo: everybody just thinks that I don't want them to live life and I'm just want to be selfish and keep them here, but I don't. It's what I've been through it scary.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Jo Delgadillo: My own family molested and
Jo Delgadillo: I ended up pregnant. I don't even remember how and I remember bits and
Jo Delgadillo: Pieces like
Jo Delgadillo: It can happen to anyone at any time and it scares me to death. And now that I have daughters, it's gotten 10 times worse like on the level. I can't even sleep.
Jo Delgadillo: If
Jo Delgadillo: I hear somebody in the yard. I'm gonna they're gonna kill our babies.
Jo Delgadillo: Like where they're gonna
Jo Delgadillo: Try make a new friend. I'm like, we can be the front of the room, Lester daughters, like us, it's bad, like
Jo Delgadillo: I just don't want the kids to go out and have lives. Yeah, that's not it. I do want them to
Jo Delgadillo: And they're like, Yeah, but you want to go with him. That's me protecting them like I feel like I'm doing the right thing and then I want to let go, but I'm scared if I let go, something happened. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And then the pandemic happen.
Jo Delgadillo: Right when I was eating going out with this sprint at the movie theater.
Jo Delgadillo: This happened. He's like, See, you're only seeing that because this happened is convenient. I'm like, No, I was gonna surprise him and call his friend because he has a little friend that only I have phone over to the modern she lives out here was going to surprise them but
Jo Delgadillo: I can do it.
Jo Delgadillo: sucks because he needs it. He's around his sisters, all the time. And they're driving him crazy
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You ever diagnosed with PTSD as a child.
Jo Delgadillo: Um, no, like,
Jo Delgadillo: Probably like
Jo Delgadillo: I remember wants. Yeah, but
Jo Delgadillo: It's like in my 20s.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What did they say with the onset, was it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was it the great
This
Jo Delgadillo: Has to do with everything that
Jo Delgadillo: Was it
Jo Delgadillo: I don't remember who I was going to know it was a lady with short hair, but I didn't go to a very long because we move
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, so on sprint for us to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Only x because of, you know, these are normal reasons why you would have this response. I mean, being sexually abused physically abuse cell common behavior as a way to cope
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, interesting aspect I didn't want to take my impression on others the way I did the way I experienced it. So I took it out on myself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: just internalize and a lot of that that so hurts and I see the pattern while you're not cutting yourself. It's still the self hurt because so many people are just, it's called an action.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Creator energy
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So even though you don't have the physical warm from being cut internally, I, I hear the ones that are being developed from the her a lack of relationship and and security and connection with your son with your husband, but sometimes you're in there with your grandma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So if you would think of, okay, this self care why it's so important and why I stress it so much is because it's almost like the adult you is harming yourself I doing so much for other people that aren't reciprocating that for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now you're you're evolving, you realize that you didn't deserve to be physically abused you didn't deserve to be sexual abuse. You don't deserve to be taken advantage of. Now in your adulthood.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He doesn't read a lot that has balance.
Jo Delgadillo: You know, I talked to Dr. April about it.
Jo Delgadillo: Because the little memories that I have of how my son came about.
Jo Delgadillo: Thought about getting hypnotize but do I want to know, because look where I'm at already
Jo Delgadillo: Maybe my brain. It's like walking all that out, or I was drugged. I don't know.
Jo Delgadillo: But I know I'm remember bits and pieces like my feet, my feet. A number of water bed and I remember a sexual position and my friend in the same one crying. I remembered that. And I just remembered that, like, three years ago.
Jo Delgadillo: So my brain wants to hear, but it doesn't, but
Jo Delgadillo: I kind of do what I kind of don't
Jo Delgadillo: Know if I do and I talked to my son about it like three weeks ago and I asked him, because that's kind of bothering me.
Jo Delgadillo: And I know it bothers him. He says it doesn't. But he's these six, three, so he's like, where do I get my highest and he said people at work, say you're talking to your dad's short and you're not. You're tall.
Jo Delgadillo: And he doesn't tell them
Jo Delgadillo: So my dad because
Jo Delgadillo: He doesn't have to explain us
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I know he wants to know, because he's mentioned it was one of those guys are tall, which one of them have here he backs have be gases like she has questions. And I'm like,
Jo Delgadillo: I don't remember, like, my friend. I never looked at them that way there, my friend, my friend.
Jo Delgadillo: My friend.
Jo Delgadillo: My other friends.
Jo Delgadillo: And then if he's like, I want to find out. I'm like, but if you find out who your dad is chicken. That's basically they rapes me, Jeff, I never ever considered to have sex with neither one of them. They were in their 30s and I was
Jo Delgadillo: Either way you look at it this
Way. Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Don't have to own that
Jo Delgadillo: Lead to admit that and
Jo Delgadillo: I don't think
Jo Delgadillo: I do myself and I know I shouldn't but
Jo Delgadillo: You still gonna hold on to go like he's just like,
Jo Delgadillo: I'm working on it.
Jo Delgadillo: Yet I want him to have work on it.
Jo Delgadillo: Or
Jo Delgadillo: Not but he's asking all the questions in part of me wants to get the answers for you.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah. And then the other part of me is like, do I need that to do that to myself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so whenever any Yeah, will you actually have the anxiety, but you also because of the anxiety, the need to control certain situations. So when you when you reflect through this whenever these thoughts come up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, will you access to. I want to know, because it's going to give me more clarity and help me feel or is it so that I can finally say, I know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And this is more about the control and if it's more about the control, then I would say don't do it work more on the coping skills to get yourself stable enough
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But even when those moments those memories resurface you're able to regulate yourself and get back to present day and be collected
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But some people find it healing to retell the stories and the safe place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And if you think as you're like, No, this isn't really about control. This is about me wanting to heal from the unknown, and I say, Yeah, do it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But you have to determine what's more for you. And the good news is it's no rush you have time to think about this and figure out what you want to do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It is more about control. That's how I don't think I'm ready to know
Jo Delgadillo: Because, already HOW PARANOID, I am with people coming around us, or I think would just get word
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, just
Jo Delgadillo: Trust, but I wouldn't have no more trust her. And I don't have trust for anyone. Anyways,
Jo Delgadillo: Mm hmm. It just got worse.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so then instead of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know the gnosis. And that might change to make it more stable and how to manage the anxiety and how to deal. You may say I think I'm writing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then you make a note, this is not helpful for me at all. What we can do is the next time to me as I can teach you different ways different images skill set, so that if a memory replace itself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can learn how to manage that and be like, Okay, this is a memory. This is where I'll put this and keep moving forward.
Jo Delgadillo: See how do I know what's the memory of what my mind's like making up
Jo Delgadillo: Mm Hmm, that confuses me to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or
Jo Delgadillo: Am I
Jo Delgadillo: Just overthinking things and
Jo Delgadillo: In there now or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If it's just coming up. If it's just coming up. That's just the natural brain recalling events that happen and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There. Yeah, if you're sitting there, which I don't see you doing this, you're not sitting in a car, you're thinking, okay, I want to relive. One of the most traumatic experiences of my life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, let me think of this. No, it's not that I'm really believing that these were different memories that were so traumatic and so painful that your brain found a way to protect you from it and they suppress the memory.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now, the better you get in your emotional regulation, your memory is starting to replay different subtle scenes for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what you do is you just find ways of how to do when those little memories Fletcher, your brain again okay you acknowledge that that was the memory and you store it away, but you need imagery and guidance and supports on how to do that. So we could do that. The next time you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Can do you want to meet. We're on a bi weekly schedule right every other week.
Jo Delgadillo: You tell me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So April 30
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's Thursday. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sounds good. Alright, see you then. Joe
Already
Jo Delgadillo: Stick.
Jo Delgadillo: To alter